So now that we understand,
at least at a high level,
the concepts of variable reduction.
Let's see how it might apply to
the business problem we're working on
in our exercises.
Let's move over to Alteryx
to work through an example.
First of all, let's bring in the data
that we prepped in an earlier exercise.
I saved mine as
Data Prep Excerise Results.csv.
I'll hook a browse tool to
the input tool and run the process.
Let's examine the data
that we have again.
If you look,
we have 59 variables in our data set.
Probably too many to
want to try to explain
how each one ties to
our future clusters.
We can see though,
that we have 12 variables.
One for each month, for
each of the climate metrics,
precipitation, rain,
snow, and temperature.
Now we don't need to cluster
each individual month for
each climate metric.
It really only makes sense to cluster
on the effects of the four metrics.
But because we want to make sure that
we are able to capture the variance for
all of the months in each metric,
PCA is a perfect tool to get
the number of variables reduced.
As we shall see,
PCA will allow us to reduce
the 48 climate variables to just 10 or
12 variables.
And in reality, since these 10 to
12 variables will really represent
the 4 climate metrics,
it will become much easier to explain.
As I mentioned earlier,
sometimes a hybrid approach works well.
Some of the other variables, such as
days before and after the winter freeze,
which we created in the earlier lesson,
we'll keep as is.
But that should get us to
a much more manageable and
explainable set of variables in total.
Let's see how the process works for
one of the metrics.
And then we can basically replicate
the same process for the other three.
Now because a principle components
tool expects numeric data, and
since we saved our data as a CSV,
we need to reconfigure it
to the correct data types.
We can do that again with a select tool.
And then as we did previously,
we can use the Data Sample Select Config
file that we used in an earlier lesson.
Since we added two more variables,
I'll change those manually.
Now we can bring in a principal
components tool, and
then we'll need to configure it.
First, we'll select just the fields
related to only one of the metrics.
In this case,
we'll start with temperature.
Next, we need to configure
the process to scale the data.
If you recall from the previous lesson,
scaling is important because of
the effect that variables with
big numbers can have when combined
alongside variables with small numbers.
Now in this case,
the difference in our climate
metrics may not be that significant.
But as a general rule, it is usually
better to scale variables unless you
have a good reason revolving around
a specific set of data to do otherwise.
Selecting the box next to scale
each field to have unit variance
will automatically scale the data for
you.
Most of the other configurations
we'll leave the defaults.
I'm going to add one more number to
the number of principal components to
append.
We'll talk through this in a minute.
Now, if you'll recall,
when we were looking at
the data in a previous lesson,
one of the stores had a missing or
null value for the temp October field.
To make it easy for
this exercise, I mentioned I was just
going to ignore the missing value.
But to keep the principal
components tool happy and
avoid an error,
I'll need to filter out that record.
I can do this easily
with just a filter tool.
Now we can run the process and
start taking a look at
what the results tell us.